---
layout: page
title: New Year's Resolutions, 2017
tagline: Building on last year
description: A look back at 2016 and what I plan to accomplish in 2017
crosspost_to_medium: true
---

2017
====

2016 was crazy year, right? An election no one would have predicted a year ago,
so many famous people dying (Carrie Fisher hit me the hardest), terrorist
attacks. Despite all that, the year went pretty well for me, goal-wise.

To frame 2016 for me, some context from the end of 2015 might be helpful.  I had
just left a great company (Rackspace) and a great city (San Francisco) to move
closer to home (Chicago) and be the first engineering hire at a startup (Triggr
Health). Within the first month and a half at Triggr, we had a massive failure
with one of our providers that necessitated essentially rebuilding the whole
backend from the ground up. Lots of very long hours through the holidays and
into the new year meant I didn't really have time to stop and think about the
next year. When some days you wake up, write code, eat lunch, write code, eat
dinner, play an hour of video games, then write more code until you pass out,
it's a bit hard to take a critical look at your life and decide on goals. So my
2016 goal was a vague: "be happier".

Good news though: I succeeded at my goal! I found a life-work balance after we
finished the backend rewrite (phew!). I became closer to my coworkers and added
a bunch more awesome coworkers. I hung out with friends more often. I went on a
couple adventures: canoeing in the Boundary Waters, backpacking Shawnee National
Forest with my sister, coffee adventures in LA with my best friend, a relaxing
trip to Cozumel, and went to a bunch of concerts, including an awesome Umphrey's
McGee show to ring in the new year. I started working out (somewhat) regularly.
I ate even healthier than 2015 and got to the lowest weight I've been since I
reached my adult height. I've improved my focus with meditation and deep work.

For 2017, I want to build on 2016's happiness goal with a focus on physical and
mental happiness:

**Meditate daily** - I can already tell the difference in the way my mind works
from doing mindfulness meditation sporadically. It has helped me at work and at
home to be less stressed and more focused. I need to make this a daily habit to
enable me to kick ass at my other goals. If there was one thing I could
recommend for my friends and family to try and do in 2017, it would be
mindfulness meditation.

**Work out 4x each week** - I'm pretty close to my goal weight, so it's about
time to start adding in more strength training to my cardio workouts. I started
running for part of 2016 but switched to biking after my shins started killing
me. I'm going to give running another try this year and aim for running a 5k.

**Go skydiving** - It terrifies me, so I should probably do it. Why not this
year? 

**Publish Veronica** - Veronica is a chat bot and service I've been working on
sporadically for a while now. The goal is to have a bot that can control my
house (similar to "Alexa, turn on the lights"), grab all my data (everything
from FitBit/MyFitnessPal health data to spending trends from Mint) and make them
accessible. She will be always present (via Slack, texting, Alexa, and anything
else I can think of), ready to answer questions or run actions. She's already
driving my [magic mirror display](https://goo.gl/photos/3bVs4y3NpuuGDH8j9) in my
house. I have high hopes for this project.

**Read a book a month** - I've been compiling a list of books from people I
admire and now I need to read them. Feel free to suggest more!

* Infinite Jest - in progress, but it's long enough I'm gonna count it for 2017.
Seriously. 900 pages with tiny text and 100 pages of footnotes, some of which
have their own footnotes or reference other footnotes.

* Zen and the Art Of Motorcycle Mainentance - how to live better. Not actually
about fixing motorcycles, as far as I can tell.

* Heavier Than Heaven - a Kurt Kobain biography. Addiction is our focus at
Triggr, so books about famous addicts are especially interesting to me.  I
really enjoyed Scar Tissue, the story of Red Hot Chilipeppers frontman Anthony
Kiedis, so I'm hoping I enjoy this one as well.  

* Debugging Teams - a book by a few Googlers on being more productive in teams 

* The Non-Designer's Design Book - I'm terrible at design. This seems like a
great place to start to fix that.  

* Glass Castle - my girlfriend's favorite book and a good change up from the
rest of the books. 

* The Art of Learning - I listened to the author in a Tim Ferriss podcast and
was very intrigued.

* Daily Rituals: How Artists Work - Recommended by both Tim Ferriss and the
author of The Art of Learning. I've been iterating on my morning ritual for
a couple months now.

* The Hard Thing About Hard Things - a seemingly classic book amongst startup
people, written by the fascinating Ben Horowitz, an entrepreneur and VC.  

* Tools of Titans - A condensed version of the Tim Ferriss show.

* Cryptonomicon - I started this book after I finished Snow Crash and really
enjoyed Stephenson's writing.  It's a weighty tome and I never finished it.  

* Devil in the White City - A true story of a serial killer in Chicago in 1893.
I live in Chicago now, so it's even more interesting.

**Complete four classes** - I would like to do 2 that relate to programming/my
career and two around other interests. Right now I'm looking at [edX's
Astrophysics series](https://www.edx.org/xseries/astrophysics) and [Practical
Deep Learning For Coders](http://course.fast.ai/start.html). I'll fill in the
other two once those are complete.

I think 2017 has the potential to be an awesome year, especially if I even come
close to hitting all these goals. 
