---
title: Hardware Deployment with vPro
date: 2013-11-01
tags:
  - vPro
  - DBAN
---
Every year at my job we deploy new machines, between 100 and 200. Every machine
carries a 4+ year warranty, and they are staggered so we swap out about 1/4
every year. Each summer, we clean all the machines, deploy new ones, and remove
old ones for testing and sale. In my first year, this accounted for a good
portion of the summer. Thanks to the new deployment system my department
designed, we cut that time down to about 2 weeks.

First, we deployed Intel vPro to every machine. This gives us the ability to
remotely control every machine, remotely reboot (even when not in an OS or
powered off), and deploy standard BIOS images either through Microsoft SCCM or
via Serial Over LAN. The BIOS part saves some time during initial setup, and
allows us to change BIOS settings if one department decides they need a new
setting changed on all ~450 machines (like enabling VT). The remote rebooting
makes the initial imaging much easier as well.

Next, we built a DBAN (Derrick's Boot and Nuke, a utility for wiping hard drives
to DoD standards) TFTP server. Every machine is set to grab PXE instructions on
every reboot (nightly for Windows machines, on command for Linux machines). We
have a web interface that controls which server it grabs the PXE menu from and
which file it boots from. I did a batch update, pointed them at our server, and
modified the DBAN options to "autonuke" without user intervention. Now, we set
every machine that will be replaced to boot from DBAN the morning before they
are replaced (or manually tell them to in Linux's case), and by the time we get
in, the machines are wiped and ready to be sold. We simply remove them, clean
them on the way out, reset their BIOSs, and put in the new machine. It saves a
lot of hassle with no extra downtime.

These simple changes saved us a lot of man hours, while giving us extra
functionality. Win-win.
